.TH NU 1 "November 2025" "1.0" "Nu Manual"
.SH NAME
Nu \- lightweight Bash script that creates shortcuts for SSH, SSHFS mounting, and remote command execution.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Nu
.I SERVERNAME USERNAME IPADDRESS|HOSTNAME PORT
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B Nu
script simplifies frequent interactions with remote servers. It creates a dedicated mount point under
.I ~/mnt/
and generates two executable helper scripts in
.I ~/bin/ :

.TP
\fBSERVERNAME\fR
A shortcut for an SSH connection with agent forwarding (\-A) and X11 forwarding (\-X).  The script also forwards any additional arguments to the remote shell.

.TP
\fBMountSERVERNAME\fR
A script that mounts the remote server's home directory locally using
.BR sshfs (1)
so that files can be accessed as if they were on the local filesystem.

The generated scripts enable advanced workflows such as command chaining, piping, and file transfers without needing to type full SSH commands each time.

.SH USAGE
.TP
.B Nu SERVERNAME USERNAME IPADDRESS PORT
Creates the mount point and helper scripts for the specified server.

Example:
.IP
.EX
Nu Saruman root 65.67.51.189 2222
.EE

After running the command the following scripts are available:

.IP
.EX
~/bin/Saruman          # SSH shortcut
~/bin/MountSaruman     # SSHFS mount script
.EE

.TP
.B Saruman [command]
SSH into the server.  If a command is supplied it is executed remotely; otherwise an interactive shell is opened.

Example:
.IP
.EX
Saruman 'uname -a'
.EE

.TP
.B MountSaruman
Mounts the remote home directory at
.I ~/mnt/Saruman
using
.BR sshfs (1).

.TP
.B Saruman ping
Runs a simple
.BR ping (8)
test against the remote host.

.TP
.B Saruman help
Displays extended usage examples embedded in the generated script.

.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "1." 4
Create shortcuts for a server called
.B Saruman
running on port 2222:
.IP
.EX
Nu Saruman root 65.67.51.189 2222
.EE

.IP "2." 4
SSH into the server:
.IP
.EX
Saruman
.EE

.IP "3." 4
Mount the remote home directory locally:
.IP
.EX
MountSaruman
.EE

.IP "4." 4
Execute a remote command and capture its output:
.IP
.EX
Saruman 'uname -a' > system_info.txt
.EE

.IP "5." 4
Transfer files via a pipe:
.IP
.EX
tar zcf - helloworld | Saruman 'zxvf -'
.EE

.IP "6." 4
Stream data from the remote server:
.IP
.EX
Saruman 'tar jcf - helloworld' | tar zxvf -
.EE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/bin/SERVERNAME
Executable SSH shortcut script.
.TP
.I ~/bin/MountSERVERNAME
Executable SSHFS mount script.
.TP
.I ~/mnt/SERVERNAME
Mount point for the remote home directory.

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.BR ssh (1),
.BR sshfs (1),
.BR bash (1)

Ensure that
.I ~/bin
is in your
.B $PATH
so that the generated scripts can be invoked directly.

.SH AUTHOR
Josh Cox <josh.cox@example.com>

.SH LICENSE
This software is released under the terms of the LICENSE file included with the project.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh (1),
.BR sshfs (1),
.BR bash (1)
